now I know I like at the start of the
relationship I felt this way at the
start of this relationship I was worried
that you were going to find someone more
beautiful than me someone with more
background that relates to your
background so yes somebody's
compatibility or something or more right
and someone smarter than you yeah sure
the relationship you know I had no
reason to think you know because of the
problems that we've had you were going
to leave me but now I really do have
reason to believe that in it even I
wasn't expecting you know cuz I felt
like I've been working like I felt like
I've been improving was with jealousy
you know I really thought it had but
then like because we've been having so
many relationship difficulties I was
like well this is the time if you were
going to leave me it would be now
because you know you're basically on the
cusp of leaving me so like if somebody
more beautiful more studies Chinese like
has been to vows has been to you know
China yeah hell yeah you're gonna jump
off and get on somebody else's ship not
mine because why you want to come down
with me it's burning the ship is burning
with me right so go onto somebody else's
[ __ ] what like that is really why it's
the insecurity of you leaving me and me
never finding somebody that
a lot of people live with the comforting
delusion that what they feel others will
know that all you have to do is be upset
and hope that others will empathize with
you will care for you will take pity on
you
some of us perhaps especially
stereotypically some of us who are large
self-confident well-spoken male members
of the species some of us have to learn
the hard way that if we do not speak for
our feelings if we do not give voice to
just how hurt we are just how damaged we
are nobody else around us will guess
nobody else will show an interest nobody
will care not even those who are closest
to us in our lives I had a situation
with Melissa a couple of months ago
where I was sitting at a kitchen table
working with pen and paper and she
really hurt me she was really cruel and
she was really vicious to me unprovoked
for no reason at all and I told her
openly at that moment you know I can't
believe you're doing this to me I can't
believe how much you're hurting me
but I drew attention to it a couple of
hours later that I was still sitting
there working with pen and paper that at
that table and I said you know I want
you to want you to really look at me I
want you to see that I'm still trembling
I want you to see that you've really had
an emotionally devastating effect on me
I said you know it was trembling for
think three hours I was really
devastated by you know what she'd done
to me what she'd said to me that day I
said I said at that time and while was
there still trembling I said you know I
wasn't this upset I wasn't this hurt
when my father died or when my
grandmother died or when some guy with a
machete tried to kill me up on the
border between Thailand and Laos those
things were not nearly so upsetting
nearly so damaging and when we talked
about this just a couple of days ago so
a couple of days ago we talked about
this
from a few months ago what she said to
me was that she didn't really take the
lesson from that example she didn't
really didn't really sink in for her
because fundamentally she did not want
to believe that she could hurt me that
way she preferred to believe that I was
involving her I'm wise than her she
looks up at me she looks up to me in
various ways she would prefer to think
that she didn't have the power to really
hurt me that way well she does and she
did and over the course of more than two
years this relationship has really
damaged me it has really broken me down
there have been a lot of challenges for
both of us
my girlfriend Melissa has become like a
second mother to my daughter she'd never
really traveled anywhere in the world
before and together we've traveled
around Europe around Asia also around
California a little bit and she's seen
so many places has done so many things
she's read so many books she's had a
very intellectually stimulating a couple
of years with me and of course she's had
the challenges of the relationship
itself of getting to know me and getting
to know my sorrows and my struggles and
being being a part of my life you know
no doubt but when she looks back at
those two years when she looks back at
what we've been through together she's
able to say that it's been a period of
personal growth of personal improvement
that she's come closer to being the
idealized person she might aspire to be
and when I look back at those same two
years I can't say that at all
instead I look at these as two years in
which she has really really broken me
down in which I've really just but when
she emotionally damages me that way
I just accumulate the damage the harm
has done and I stay harmed and you know
I really liked the person that I was
just three years ago say just before she
and I got together
the time we first got together um I
don't I don't really like the person
that I am now I used to be fundamentally
a much more optimistic a much more
creative person with a sense of purpose
and direction and you know now I've got
to tell you I'm just a wreck
this is the sort of thing as I said at
the start of this segment nobody will
suspect nobody will care unless you come
out and tell them especially if you are
a self-confident well-spoken man people
will not believe that you are suffering
not even when you're trembling
in front of them not even when you're
weeping if you don't come out and really
say if you don't really speak your truth
if you don't tell your side of the story
if you don't explain to them the harm
that they've done you even when they've
seen it for themselves even where it's
self-evident the impact they'll never
care they'll never make the effort to
change my question is my question is
what you've just presented is really a
clearly reasoned narrative you know what
that makes sense when I'm with you and
you're freaking oh no no no but my point
is like that's what you're saying now
reflecting on it I don't really believe
that's what's going on with you when you
have these freak oh look you know
well you just presented a totally
rational train of thought like well you
know because I've pushed you to the
brink with breaking out with me already
yeah because because therefore I feel
this way but like you know I just say in
terms of the the feeling and then the
behavior that you know comes out of it
that that doesn't seem to be what's
actually going on so you're saying what
you've just said that could kind of be
addressed and that could
fixed but I think that would not be you
know I mean it wouldn't fix the problem
we can even you see within the span of a
ship yeah yeah you know my experience of
this relationship has been melissa
crossing the line with me repeatedly
melissa really harming me really
breaking my heart
repeatedly me dumping her me making the
decision to end the relationship
repeatedly and then Melissa begging
pleading and to some extent negotiating
you know making promises
Melissa begging her way back into the
relationship getting me to give her
another chance give her another
opportunity for the long-term future
Lucia and I have made that decision to
give for another chance under
extraordinary pressure extraordinary
pressure
partly because I don't want to hurt
Melissa I love Melissa partly because I
don't want to disappoint my mom but
above all else because I don't want to
support my daughter my daughter really
loves Melissa and I feel like one of the
few gifts I could really give my
daughter is trying to make this ghost
ship work with Melissa so the next time
I see my daughter you know Melissa and I
are there as a couple my daughter really
loves and it really appreciates Melissa
and the time they spend together and I
never talked about this on YouTube we
never talked about any of the breakups
maybe they were obliquely alluded to in
some videos and you know for the reasons
I already stated I wish I had I wish I
come here on camera and really said I
wish I'd come on camera weeping I don't
let it out and really like sat here and
said like Melissa I can't believe you
did this to me I can't believe you were
me this way because maybe if she heard
it that way maybe if she saw it that way
and maybe if she knew
she knew it was public but I mean maybe
she would have taken it seriously maybe
she would have changed her behavior
because on on some level even though she
really is capable of being rational and
attached and talking about these things
in a conversational way it seems very
positive after she calms down she can
apologize and she can speak about these
things rationally you know it breaks my
heart to look back at the last two years
two and a half years it breaks my heart
to look back and say every single time
I've given her another chance I have
regretted it every single time she's
left me down so look it's kind of a tan
gently' related thing but I mean
something I think is really important
ethically is if you were gonna break up
with someone you know talk about a
commitment relationship whether it's a
marriage or long-term you know dating
this wouldn't be if you just met someone
last week you know what I mean like if
not if you you just barely get to know
someone but if you're gonna break up
with someone where you're in a real real
committed you know supportive
relationship I think it always has to be
in principle you're breaking up with
them to be alone then you should never
break up with someone for someone else
neither for like the abstract idea that
someone else could be better nor for
another particular person like oh I'm
gonna leave you for Becky or something
you know I for me ethically that's
that's really important and we've talked
that through before where it's like look
Melissa like if I end this it's because
this should end I think you don't like
the relationships not good it's not
working and in and of itself meeting
that judgment and again for me at 40
years old it's reasonable to say I could
be alone for a long time or for the rest
of my life like you could add that kind
of gravity in my life you know I've no
reason to think it's not even no reason
they're gonna do better have no reason
to think anything else is ever gonna
come between 40 and 60 I really I really
am not joking so the point is like that
that's how I frame that that decision
ethically you know nah man you're gonna
be like dusty
inside anyway yeah yeah you're probably
right that this is just me like
rationalizing no it's my behavior
no which doesn't mean it's false I mean
I'm just saying I think that's a
rational account of something but that
that but that is you know like in
principle yeah